Tech Curiosities

Everything you ever wanted to know about the Tech world, in one place

[MENU]

Home
News
Curiosities
Contact Us

History of the Android Mascot

You probably know that the Android operating system, maintained by Google, is one of the most used for mobile devices worldwide. But maybe you don't know that its cute mascot has a very curious name and story? Follow this article to learn a lot about this little robot.

The First Version

The first attempt to create a mascot came in 2007 from a developer named Dan Morrill. He says he opened Inkscape (free vector graphics software) and created his own version of a robot. The goal was just to personify the system for his team only; there was no request from the company to create a mascot.

[IMAGE]

This bizarre first version was even named after its creator: it would be the Dandroids.

A New Mascot Emerges

The idea of having a mascot matured, and the mission was passed on to a professional in the field. Russian illustrator Irina Blok, also a Google employee, was tasked with representing the little robot in a more pleasant way.

[IMAGE]

Irina's main idea was to represent everything graphically with a few strokes and in a more flattened way. The drawing should also generate quick identification with whoever looks at it. That's how Bugdroid, the new Android mascot, was born.

[IMAGE]

The main inspiration for the features of the new Bugdroid came from those little figures that illustrate bathroom doors to indicate the gender of each door. Legend has it that the artist was creating at her desk at the Google office and looked towards the bathrooms and the identification was immediate: simple, clean, objective.

[VIDEO]

[EXTRA] Want to learn more?

Another curious thing about Android is that each version has always been named after a candy, in alphabetical order from version 1.5 to 9.0.

1.5 - Cupcake
1.6 - Donut
3.0 - Eclair
2.2 - Froyo
2.3 - Gingerbread
3.0 - Honeycomb
4.0 - Ice Cream Sandwich
4.1 - Jelly Bean
4.4 - KitKat
5.0 - Lolipop
6.0 - Marshmallow
7.0 - Nougat
8.0 - Oreo
9.0 - Pie

Unfortunately, Android Q didn't exist, as Google decided to put an end to this fun practice and started using numbers, which gave rise to Android 10.

Access the Android History website here to see the sequence of "sweetened" versions and what each one brought to the Android system.

[/EXTRA]

That's it! I hope you enjoyed our article with this curiosity about the Android system and its cute mascot.

Website created by Gustavo Guanabara for CursoemVideo.